NewRelic Capacitor Plugin (#10543)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ionic-capacitor/get-started/introduction-new-relic-ionic-capacitor.mdx

  - Mobile monitoring
  - New Relic Mobile Capacitor
  - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Capacitor plugin for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
redirects:
  - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-capacitor/get-started
---

import mobileQueryExample from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_query-example.png'

The official New Relic Capacitor plugin for iOS and Android allows developers to easily embed the mobile agents into [Capacitor applications](https://capacitorjs.com/). Written in JavaScript, the plugin automatically includes New Relic's native agents to provide mobile monitoring and performance visibility.

## Features

The New Relic Capacitor plugin will:

* Automatically instrument mobile applications built via Capacitor
* Capture JavaScript errors
* Generate distributed traces
* Track promise rejection (an unhandled exception in JavaScript)
* Track warnings and errors with console logs
* Capture interactions and their sequences
* Track user sessions

For more information, see [New Relic Capacitor Plugin on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-capacitor-plugin).

## Requirements [#requirements]

> Before you install the React Native agent, ensure your app meets these requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you install the Capacitor agent, ensure your app meets these requirements:
```

2. Update `build.gradle`:
  ```groovy
    buildscript {
      ...
      repositories {
        ...
        mavenCentral()
      }
      dependencies {
        ...
        classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.1"
      }
    }
  ```

3. Update `app/build.gradle`:
  ```groovy
    apply plugin: "com.android.application"
    apply plugin: 'newrelic' // <-- add this
  
  ```

4. Make sure your app requests INTERNET and ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE permissions by adding these lines to your `AndroidManifest.xml`
  ```
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
  ```

To automatically link the package, rebuild your project:
```shell
# Android apps
ionic capacitor run android

# iOS apps
ionic capacitor run ios
```

## API calls [#api-calls]

Our Capacitor Plugin utilizes the same API calls as our iOS and Android SDK agents. Please refer to [New Relic iOS SDK doc](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/ios-sdk-api) or [Android SDK](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api).

> For errors specific to React Native, you can call `NewRelicCapacitorPlugin.recordError(error)` as follows:

Reviewer 2: @ndesai-newrelic Is there supposed to be a code sample here?

> For errors specific to React Native, you can call `NewRelicCapacitorPlugin.recordError(error)` as follows:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
For errors specific to Capacitor, you can call `NewRelicCapacitorPlugin.recordError` as follows:
```ts
    try {
      throw new Error('Example error message');
    } catch (error: any) {
      NewRelicCapacitorPlugin.recordError({
        name: error.name,
        message: error.message,
        stack: error.stack,
        isFatal: false,
      });
    }
```
````

## Features

The New Relic Capacitor plugin will:

* Automatically instrument mobile applications built via Capacitor
* Capture JavaScript errors
* Generate distributed traces
* Track promise rejection (an unhandled exception in JavaScript)
* Track warnings and errors with console logs
* Capture interactions and their sequences
* Track user sessions

For more information, see [New Relic Capacitor Plugin on Github](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-capacitor-plugin).

## Requirements [#requirements]

Before you install the Capacitor agent, ensure your app meets these requirements:

* Android API 24+
* iOS 10
* [iOS native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)
* [Android native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)

## Install

```bash

> npm install newrelic-capacitor-plugin

Reviewer: I've changed how the npm package should be scoped:
```suggestion
npm install @newrelic/newrelic-capacitor-plugin
```

npx cap sync
```
## Ionic Capacitor Setup

Now open your `index.tsx` and add the following code to launch NewRelic (don't forget to put proper application tokens):

``` tsx

> import { NewRelicCapacitorPlugin } from 'newrelic-capacitor-plugin';

Reviewer: Another change caused by the new npm scope:
```suggestion
import { NewRelicCapacitorPlugin } from '@newrelic/newrelic-capacitor-plugin';
```
